# combined-cycle-power-plant

A combined-cycle power plant comprises gas turbines, steam turbines, and heat recovery steam generators. In this type of plant, the electricity is generated by gas and steam turbines combined in one cycle. Then, it is transferred from one turbine to another. We have to model the energy generated as a function of exhaust vacuum and ambient variables and use that model to improve the plant's performance.

This is a project where the variable to be predicted is energy production. The data file contains 9568 observations with five variables collected from a combined cycle power plant over six years when the power plant was set to work with a full load.

The variables, or features, are the following:

Temperature, in degrees Celsius. Exhaust_vacuum , in cm Hg. Amb_pressure , in millibar. (Ambient pressure) R_humidity, in percentage. (Relative humidity) Energy_production, in MW, net hourly electrical energy output.

RANGES ARE:-

Temperature (T) in the range 1.81°C and 37.11°C, Ambient Pressure (AP) in the range 992.89-1033.30 milibar, Relative Humidity (RH) in the range 25.56% to 100.16% Exhaust Vacuum (V) in teh range 25.36-81.56 cm Hg Net hourly electrical energy output (EP) 420.26-495.76 MW. The averages are taken from various sensors located around the plant that record the ambient variables every second. The variables are given without normalization.

DATA CLEANING:-

There are Features which is in the Continous data. There Are 41 Duplicates. NO NUll Values. Outliers are detected and found in the Ambient Pressure and Relative humidity by using Matplotlib Boxplot. EDA PART is done for each feature using HISTOGRAM,SCATTERPLOT,LINE PLOTS,BAR CHART,PAIR PLOT, HEAT MAP.

MODEL BUILDING:

Model building is done using mainy models where the dependent feature is "Energy Production" and model building is done using with outerliers and with-out outerliers. so that some of the models are as follows:-

MULTI LINEAR REGRESSION

with outerliers without outerliers r2:-0.9286960898122536 r2:- 0.9277425155023922 r2_Adj:- 0.9286662648994908 r2_Adj:- 0.9277118068391973 AIC :- 56186.22904743758 AIC :- 55345.53530507031

SUPPORT VECTOR REGRESSOR USING LINEAR KERNAL

with outerliers without outerliers Mean Squared Error: 0.072 Mean Squared Error: 0.069 R-squared Score: 0.929 R-squared Score: 0.931

SUPPORT VECTOR REGRESSOR USING RBF KERNAL

with outerliers without outerliers Mean Squared Error: 0.057 Mean Squared Error: 0.052 R-squared Score: 0.945 R-squared Score: 0.946

SUPPORT VECTOR REGRESSOR USING POLYNOMIAL KERNAL

with outerliers without outerliers Mean Squared Error: 0.216 Mean Squared Error: 0.223 R-squared Score: 0.778 R-squared Score: 0.786

RANDOM FOREST REGRESSOR

with outerliers without outerliers Mean Squared Error: 0.0385 Mean Squared Error: 0.0362 R-squared Score: 0.962 R-squared Score: 0.962

DECISION TREE REGRESSOR

with outerliers without outerliers Mean Squared Error: 0.0649 Mean Squared Error: 0.068 R-squared Score: 0.937 R-squared Score: 0.93009

Similarly we did KNN REGRESSOR, BOOSTING TECHNIQUES GRADIENT BOOSTING REGRESSOR,ADABOOST REGRESSOR MODEL, XBR REGRESSOR MODEL,BAGGING MODEL BUILDING.

Finally,

Random Forest Regressor :-

This model showcases robust predictive power with a low Mean Squared Error (MSE) of 0.0386 and a high R-squared score of 0.963, indicating its accuracy in explaining data variance. Its consistent performance across test data validates its reliability, making it a strong choice for making precise predictions in real-world scenarios.

Thank you Hope you understood...............
